This OPM package provides simple Authentication modules that allow 
password-less login. They are meant to be used behind some security
firewall that does the authentication.
=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

AuthHeader - an OTRS authentication module

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<AuthHeader> is a collection of very simple authentication modules
for use with OTRS version 6. They allow passwordless agent and customer
user login, based on the presence of a particular environment variable.
The environment is supposed to be set by parsing a HTTP request header.

=head1 Configuration: agent user

Agent user login configuration should only be done in Kernel/Config.pm
in order to avoid GUI user self lock-out. Enable AuthHeader for agents
by adding the declarations:

  $Self->{'AuthModule'} = 'Kernel::System::Auth::Header';
  $Self->{'AuthModule::Header::Env'} = 'X_OTRS_AGENT';

to Kernel/Config.pm, where "X_OTRS_AGENT" is the name of the environment
variable holding the authenticated agent users's OTRS login name (see
webserver configuration below).

If there are other authentication modules to be used in a stack, the
AuthHeader module can be used in any slot from 1 to 10:

  $Self->{'AuthModule1'} = 'Kernel::System::Auth::Header';
  $Self->{'AuthModule::Header::Env1'} = 'X_OTRS_AGENT';


=head1 Configuration: customer user

Customer user authentication settings are configured in the usual OTRS
SysConfig mechanism. An agent in the group "admin" must navigate to
Admin->System Configration->Core->Auth->Customer and change the setting
L<Customer::AuthModule> to Kernel::System::Customer::Auth::Header.

The setting L<Customer::AuthModule::Header::Env> must contain the name
of the environment variable that contains the authenticated customer
user's login name (see webserver configuration below).

Alternatively, the settings can be changed from the command line:

    bin/otrs.Console.pl Admin::Config::Update --setting-name Customer::AuthModule --value Kernel::System::CustomerAuth::Header
    bin/otrs.Console.pl Admin::Config::Update --setting-name Customer::AuthModule::Header::Env --value X_OTRS_CUSTOMERUSER

=head1 Apache configuration

Enable the apache configuration provided by OTRS/Znuny and by AuthHeader:

    ln -s /opt/otrs/scripts/apache2-httpd.include.conf /etc/apache2/conf-available/
    ln -s /opt/otrs/scripts/apache2-authheader.include.conf /etc/apache2/conf-available/
    a2enconf apache2-httpd.include apache2-authheader.include
    apache2ctl restart

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (c) 2023 by Othmar Wigger <othmar.wigger@terreactive.ch>

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the Gnu Affero General Public License version 3.

This package is provided "as is" and without any express or implied
warranties, including, without limitation, the implied warranties of
merchantibility and fitness for a particular purpose.

=cut

